# Analysis-of-N0_2
This document considers the use of bivariate polar plots applied to air pollution problems. 
Since the development of the openair package, which first made available the polarPlot function, there have been many further developments. These include:  Clustering of polar plot concetration surfaces (Carslaw and Beevers, 2013). Development of a bivarate Conditional Probability Function (Uria-Tellaetxe and Carslaw, 2014). Extension to considering two pollutant species and a range of pair-wise statistics (Grange et al., 2016). This document summarises the main use of the polar plot functions with examples using real air quality data,  The polarPlot function plots a bivariate polar plot of concentrations. Concentrations are shown to vary by wind speed and wind direction.  For many, maybe most situations, increasing wind speed generally results in lower concentrations due to increased dilution through advection and increased mechanical turbulence. There are, however, many processes that can lead to interesting concentration-wind speed dependencies and we will provide a more theoretical treatment of this in due course. However, below are a few reasons why concentrations can change with increasing wind speeds.  Buoyant plumes from tall stacks can be brought down to ground-level resulting in high concentrations under high wind speed conditions.  Particle suspension increases with increasing wind speeds e.g. from spoil heaps and the like.  ‘Particle’ suspension can be important close to coastal areas where higher wind speeds generate more sea spray.  The wind speed dependence of concentrations in a street canyon can be very complex: higher wind speeds do not always results in lower concentrations due to re-circulation. Bivariate polar plots are very good at revealing these complexities.  As Carslaw et al. (2006) showed, aircraft emissions have an unusual wind speed dependence and this can help distinguish them from other sources. If several measurement sites are available, polar plots can be used to triangulate different sources.  Concentrations of NO2 can increase with increasing wind speed — or at least not decline steeply due to increased mixing. This mixing can result in O3 -rich air converting NO to NO2
